README.md, before:

# 🏥 PatientPoint Command Center

A sophisticated **Predictive Maintenance Dashboard** for medical device fleet management, deployed on **Streamlit in Snowflake (SiS)** and powered by Snowflake Cortex AI.

![Snowflake](https://img.shields.io/badge/Snowflake-Native-blue)
![Cortex AI](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cortex-AI_Powered-green)
![Streamlit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Streamlit-in_Snowflake-red)

🔗 **GitHub Repository**: [ai_agent_predictive_maintenance](https://github.com/sfc-gh-akelkar/ai_agent_predictive_maintenance)

## 🎯 Overview

The PatientPoint Command Center is an **enterprise operations dashboard** designed for monitoring a fleet of 500+ medical devices across US hospitals. Built specifically for **Streamlit in Snowflake**, it provides:

- **Real-time monitoring**: Track device health across a geospatial map with color-coded risk levels
- **AI-powered operations**: Natural language queries powered by Snowflake Cortex Analyst + Cortex Search
- **ML abstraction**: XGBoost inference runs in background; users see actionable insights
- **Revenue protection**: Quantify potential revenue loss from predicted failures ($50/hour per device)
- **Composite intelligence**: Combines structured data queries with unstructured repair documentation

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              Streamlit in Snowflake (Native App)                 │
│                     (dashboard_app.py)                           │
└────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                             │
                ┌────────────┴────────────┐
                │                         │
        ┌───────▼─────────┐      ┌───────▼──────────┐
        │ Cortex Analyst  │      │  Cortex Search   │
        │  (Structured)   │      │ (Unstructured)   │
        └───────┬─────────┘      └───────┬──────────┘
                │                         │
        ┌───────▼─────────────────────────▼──────────┐
        │    Snowflake Data Platform (Same Account)  │
        │                                             │
        │  📊 FLEET_HEALTH_SCORED (500 devices)      │
        │  📝 MAINTENANCE_LOGS (historical costs)     │
        │  📄 RUNBOOK_DOCS (repair manuals)          │
        │  🔍 RUNBOOK_SEARCH_SERVICE                 │
        └─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

**Key Advantage**: Everything runs in your Snowflake account—no external hosting, automatic authentication, enterprise-grade security.

## 🚀 Quick Deployment (15 minutes)

### Step 1: Setup Backend (5 minutes)

1. Open Snowflake SQL worksheet
2. Copy and execute `setup_backend.sql`
3. Verify: `SELECT COUNT(*) FROM PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.FLEET_HEALTH_SCORED;` (should return 500)

### Step 2: Create Streamlit App in Snowflake (5 minutes)

```sql
-- Create a stage for the app files
CREATE STAGE IF NOT EXISTS PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.STREAMLIT_STAGE;

-- Upload files via SnowSQL or Snowsight UI
-- You'll upload: dashboard_app.py, semantic_model.yaml

-- Create the Streamlit app
CREATE STREAMLIT PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.COMMAND_CENTER
  ROOT_LOCATION = '@PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.STREAMLIT_STAGE'
  MAIN_FILE = 'dashboard_app.py'
  QUERY_WAREHOUSE = COMPUTE_WH
  TITLE = 'PatientPoint Command Center'
  COMMENT = 'Predictive maintenance dashboard for medical device fleet';
```

### Step 3: Upload Files to Stage

**Option A: Using SnowSQL**
```bash
snowsql -a <your_account> -u <your_user>

PUT file://dashboard_app.py @PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.STREAMLIT_STAGE AUTO_COMPRESS=FALSE OVERWRITE=TRUE;
PUT file://semantic_model.yaml @PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.STREAMLIT_STAGE AUTO_COMPRESS=FALSE OVERWRITE=TRUE;
```

**Option B: Using Snowsight UI**
1. Navigate to Data → Databases → PATIENTPOINT_OPS → DEVICE_ANALYTICS → Stages
2. Click on STREAMLIT_STAGE
3. Click "+ Files" and upload `dashboard_app.py` and `semantic_model.yaml`

### Step 4: Launch Dashboard

1. Navigate to **Streamlit** in Snowsight left menu
2. Click on **COMMAND_CENTER**
3. Dashboard opens—ready to use! 🎉

**Total Time**: ~15 minutes from zero to production dashboard

## 📊 Dashboard Features

### Section A: Top-Line KPIs

- **Fleet Health Score**: Overall fleet reliability (96.2%)
- **Predicted Failures (24h)**: Devices at critical risk (18 devices)
- **Revenue Protected**: Potential loss prevented ($21,600)
- **Offline Devices**: Devices needing attention

### Section B: Geospatial Fleet Map

Interactive map with 500 devices:
- 🔴 **Red**: Critical devices (>80% failure probability)
- 🟠 **Orange**: Medium risk (50-80%)
- 🟢 **Green**: Healthy devices (<50%)

**Hover** over any device for details.

### Section C: AI Operations Agent

Three types of natural language queries:

#### 1. Structured Queries (Cortex Analyst)
```
"Show me the list of critical devices in New York"
```
→ Uses semantic model to generate SQL → Returns device list

#### 2. Unstructured Queries (Cortex Search)
```
"What is the standard fix for Memory Leak errors?"
```
→ Searches repair documentation → Returns manual excerpt

#### 3. Composite Queries (Both)
```
"Find all overheating devices and summarize the recommended repair steps"
```
→ Finds devices + repair guidance → Complete answer

## 💰 Business Value

### ROI Calculation

**Without Predictive Maintenance**:
- 18 critical devices fail unexpectedly
- Average downtime: 8.5 hours
- Average repair cost: $6,800
- **Total cost**: $130,050

**With Predictive Maintenance**:
- Proactive service during scheduled windows
- Average downtime: 1.8 hours  
- Average repair cost: $2,500
- **Total cost**: $46,620

**NET SAVINGS**: **$83,430 per incident cycle** (64% reduction)

### Key Metrics
- 79% reduction in downtime
- 63% lower repair costs
- $21,600 revenue protected in next 24 hours
- 89% ML prediction accuracy

## 📁 Project Structure

```
ai_agent_predictive_maintenance/
├── dashboard_app.py          # Main Streamlit application (upload to stage)
├── semantic_model.yaml       # Cortex Analyst configuration (upload to stage)
├── setup_backend.sql         # One-time Snowflake setup (run in worksheet)
├── README.md                 # This file
├── PROJECT_SUMMARY.md        # Executive summary & technical deep dive
├── DATA_SCHEMA.md            # Database schema reference
├── ARCHITECTURE.md           # Visual architecture diagrams
├── FILE_GUIDE.md             # Complete file inventory
└── validate_setup.py         # Optional: validation script
```

## 🔧 Customization

### Adding Custom Metrics

1. Update `semantic_model.yaml`:
```yaml
metrics:
  - name: my_custom_metric
    description: Description here
    type: sum
    definition:
      sql: SUM(my_column)
    from_table: FLEET_HEALTH_SCORED
```

2. Refresh the Streamlit app (it will reload automatically)

### Adding New Failure Types

1. Update `setup_backend.sql` to include new categories
2. Add repair documentation to `RUNBOOK_DOCS`
3. Update semantic model synonyms

### Changing Risk Thresholds

Modify in `semantic_model.yaml`:
```yaml
filters:
  - name: critical_only
    definition:
      sql: failure_probability > 0.90  # Changed from 0.85
```

## 🎓 Understanding the Data

### FLEET_HEALTH_SCORED (500 devices)

Real-time health metrics updated hourly by ML pipeline:

| Column | Description | Example |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `device_id` | Unique identifier | PP-00001 |
| `region` | US State | New York, California |
| `hospital_name` | Facility name | Mount Sinai Hospital |
| `failure_probability` | ML prediction (0-1) | 0.89 (89% chance of failure) |
| `predicted_failure_type` | Most likely issue | Overheating, Memory Leak |
| `cpu_load`, `temperature`, etc. | Sensor readings | 87.9%, 76.2°C |

### MAINTENANCE_LOGS (200+ records)

Historical maintenance for ROI analysis:
- Preventive maintenance: $2,500 avg, 1.8 hrs downtime
- Reactive maintenance: $6,800 avg, 8.5 hrs downtime

### RUNBOOK_DOCS (6 repair manuals)

Comprehensive troubleshooting guides (3,000+ words each):
1. Overheating Component Diagnostic
2. Memory Leak Resolution
3. CPU Exhaustion Management
4. Power Supply Failure
5. Component Degradation
6. System Instability Recovery

## 🔍 Sample Queries

Try these in the AI Operations Agent:

**Structured (Data)**:
- "How many critical devices are in California?"
- "What is the total revenue at risk by region?"
- "Show devices with temperature above 75°C"

**Unstructured (Documentation)**:
- "How do I fix an overheating device?"
- "What tools are needed for power supply replacement?"
- "Show me the safety notes for CPU repair"

**Composite (Both)**:
- "Find all memory leak devices and show repair procedures"
- "Which overheating devices need immediate service?"

## 🚨 Troubleshooting

### Issue: "Session not found" error

**Solution**: Ensure you're accessing the app through Snowflake (not localhost). Streamlit in Snowflake manages sessions automatically.

### Issue: Cortex Search Service not found

**Solution**: 
```sql
-- Verify it exists
SHOW CORTEX SEARCH SERVICES IN SCHEMA PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS;

-- If missing, re-run the search service creation section from setup_backend.sql
```

### Issue: Empty map or no devices

**Solution**:
```sql
-- Check data exists
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.FLEET_HEALTH_SCORED;

-- Should return 500. If 0, re-run setup_backend.sql
```

### Issue: "Permission denied" errors

**Solution**:
```sql
-- Grant necessary permissions to your role
GRANT USAGE ON DATABASE PATIENTPOINT_OPS TO ROLE YOUR_ROLE;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS TO ROLE YOUR_ROLE;
GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS TO ROLE YOUR_ROLE;
GRANT USAGE ON CORTEX SEARCH SERVICE PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.RUNBOOK_SEARCH_SERVICE TO ROLE YOUR_ROLE;
```

## 📈 Performance Optimization

### Warehouse Sizing

- **Development/Testing**: X-Small ($2/hour when running)
- **Production (<50 users)**: Small ($4/hour)
- **Production (50+ users)**: Medium ($8/hour)

Enable auto-suspend:
```sql
ALTER WAREHOUSE COMPUTE_WH SET 
  AUTO_SUSPEND = 300  -- 5 minutes
  AUTO_RESUME = TRUE;
```

### Query Optimization

The app uses:
- **Materialized views** for KPIs (pre-aggregated)
- **Clustering keys** on `region` and `failure_probability`
- **Client-side caching** (5-minute TTL)

## 🔐 Security

### Built-in Benefits of Streamlit in Snowflake

✅ **Authentication**: Automatic via Snowflake login  
✅ **Authorization**: Governed by Snowflake RBAC  
✅ **Data Security**: Never leaves Snowflake account  
✅ **Network Security**: Internal to Snowflake VPC  
✅ **Audit Logging**: Tracked in QUERY_HISTORY  

### Recommended: Create Read-Only Role

```sql
-- Minimal permissions for dashboard users
CREATE ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;

GRANT USAGE ON DATABASE PATIENTPOINT_OPS TO ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS TO ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;
GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS TO ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;
GRANT SELECT ON ALL VIEWS IN SCHEMA PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS TO ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;
GRANT USAGE ON WAREHOUSE COMPUTE_WH TO ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;
GRANT USAGE ON CORTEX SEARCH SERVICE PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.RUNBOOK_SEARCH_SERVICE TO ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;

-- Grant to users
GRANT ROLE DASHBOARD_READER TO USER <username>;
```

## 📚 Additional Resources

- **[PROJECT_SUMMARY.md](PROJECT_SUMMARY.md)**: Executive overview, ROI, technical deep dive
- **[DATA_SCHEMA.md](DATA_SCHEMA.md)**: Complete database schema and sample queries
- **[ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md)**: Visual architecture diagrams
- **[FILE_GUIDE.md](FILE_GUIDE.md)**: Complete file inventory and learning paths

### Snowflake Documentation
- [Streamlit in Snowflake Documentation](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/streamlit/about-streamlit)
- [Cortex AI Overview](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/ml-powered-functions)
- [Cortex Analyst Guide](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/ml-powered-analysis)
- [Cortex Search API](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/snowflake-cortex/cortex-search)

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a reference implementation for Snowflake Cortex AI capabilities. Enhancements welcome:

1. Real ML pipeline integration (replace simulated scores)
2. Historical trending (24-hour/7-day charts)
3. Alerting system integration
4. Work order management
5. Multi-tenancy support

## 📝 License

This project is provided as a reference implementation for educational and demonstration purposes.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Built to demonstrate Snowflake Cortex AI capabilities for predictive maintenance in healthcare IoT.

**Key Technologies**:
- **Snowflake Cortex Analyst**: Natural language to SQL
- **Snowflake Cortex Search**: Semantic document search
- **Streamlit in Snowflake**: Native app deployment
- **Snowpark Python**: Data processing

---

## 🚀 Get Started Now

1. **Clone this repository**
2. **Run `setup_backend.sql` in Snowflake**
3. **Upload `dashboard_app.py` and `semantic_model.yaml` to a stage**
4. **Create Streamlit app** (see Step 2 above)
5. **Launch and explore!**

**Questions?** Open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/sfc-gh-akelkar/ai_agent_predictive_maintenance/issues)

---

**Built with ❤️ using Snowflake Cortex AI**

**Author**: Principal Snowflake Architect specializing in Data Visualization and GenAI  
**Last Updated**: December 12, 2025  
**Status**: ✅ Production Ready

Commit message:

Fix column case sensitivity in visualizations and update terminology
Column Case Fixes:
- Fix FAILURE_PROBABILITY references in create_geospatial_map()
- Fix LONGITUDE/LATITUDE in PyDeck layer
- Fix filtered_df column references in legend and table

Terminology Updates (AdTech Focus):
- Change 'medical devices' to 'interactive displays'
- Emphasize patient engagement and pharmaceutical advertising
- Highlight revenue from programmatic ads (/hr per display)
- Update description to reflect PatientPoint as adtech company
- Add 'Displays Monitored: 500' to system info

Resolves: KeyError: 'failure_probability' in map creation

README.md, after:

# 🏥 PatientPoint Command Center

A sophisticated **Predictive Maintenance Dashboard** for interactive display fleet management, deployed on **Streamlit in Snowflake (SiS)** and powered by Snowflake Cortex AI.

![Snowflake](https://img.shields.io/badge/Snowflake-Native-blue)
![Cortex AI](https://img.shields.io/badge/Cortex-AI_Powered-green)
![Streamlit](https://img.shields.io/badge/Streamlit-in_Snowflake-red)

🔗 **GitHub Repository**: [ai_agent_predictive_maintenance](https://github.com/sfc-gh-akelkar/ai_agent_predictive_maintenance)

## 🎯 Overview

The PatientPoint Command Center is an **enterprise operations dashboard** for monitoring a fleet of 500+ **interactive digital displays** across US healthcare facilities. These displays deliver patient engagement content and pharmaceutical advertising, generating revenue through programmatic ads and healthcare education.

Built specifically for **Streamlit in Snowflake**, it provides:

- **Real-time monitoring**: Track display health across a geospatial map with color-coded risk levels
- **AI-powered operations**: Natural language queries powered by Snowflake Cortex Analyst + Cortex Search
- **ML abstraction**: XGBoost inference runs in background; users see actionable insights
- **Revenue protection**: Quantify potential advertising revenue loss from display downtime ($50/hour per display)
- **Composite intelligence**: Combines structured data queries with unstructured repair documentation

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              Streamlit in Snowflake (Native App)                 │
│                     (dashboard_app.py)                           │
└────────────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                             │
                ┌────────────┴────────────┐
                │                         │
        ┌───────▼─────────┐      ┌───────▼──────────┐
        │ Cortex Analyst  │      │  Cortex Search   │
        │  (Structured)   │      │ (Unstructured)   │
        └───────┬─────────┘      └───────┬──────────┘
                │                         │
        ┌───────▼─────────────────────────▼──────────┐
        │    Snowflake Data Platform (Same Account)  │
        │                                             │
        │  📊 FLEET_HEALTH_SCORED (500 devices)      │
        │  📝 MAINTENANCE_LOGS (historical costs)     │
        │  📄 RUNBOOK_DOCS (repair manuals)          │
        │  🔍 RUNBOOK_SEARCH_SERVICE                 │
        └─────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

**Key Advantage**: Everything runs in your Snowflake account—no external hosting, automatic authentication, enterprise-grade security.

## 🚀 Quick Deployment (15 minutes)

### Step 1: Setup Backend (5 minutes)

1. Open Snowflake SQL worksheet
2. Copy and execute `setup_backend.sql`
3. Verify: `SELECT COUNT(*) FROM PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.FLEET_HEALTH_SCORED;` (should return 500)

### Step 2: Create Streamlit App in Snowflake (5 minutes)

```sql
-- Create a stage for the app files
CREATE STAGE IF NOT EXISTS PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.STREAMLIT_STAGE;

-- Upload files via SnowSQL or Snowsight UI
-- You'll upload: dashboard_app.py, semantic_model.yaml

-- Create the Streamlit app
CREATE STREAMLIT PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.COMMAND_CENTER
  ROOT_LOCATION = '@PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.STREAMLIT_STAGE'
  MAIN_FILE = 'dashboard_app.py'
  QUERY_WAREHOUSE = COMPUTE_WH
  TITLE = 'PatientPoint Command Center'
  COMMENT = 'Predictive maintenance dashboard for medical device fleet';
```

### Step 3: Upload Files to Stage

**Option A: Using SnowSQL**
```bash
snowsql -a <your_account> -u <your_user>

PUT file://dashboard_app.py @PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.STREAMLIT_STAGE AUTO_COMPRESS=FALSE OVERWRITE=TRUE;
PUT file://semantic_model.yaml @PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.STREAMLIT_STAGE AUTO_COMPRESS=FALSE OVERWRITE=TRUE;
```

**Option B: Using Snowsight UI**
1. Navigate to Data → Databases → PATIENTPOINT_OPS → DEVICE_ANALYTICS → Stages
2. Click on STREAMLIT_STAGE
3. Click "+ Files" and upload `dashboard_app.py` and `semantic_model.yaml`

### Step 4: Launch Dashboard

1. Navigate to **Streamlit** in Snowsight left menu
2. Click on **COMMAND_CENTER**
3. Dashboard opens—ready to use! 🎉

**Total Time**: ~15 minutes from zero to production dashboard

## 📊 Dashboard Features

### Section A: Top-Line KPIs

- **Fleet Health Score**: Overall fleet reliability (96.2%)
- **Predicted Failures (24h)**: Devices at critical risk (18 devices)
- **Revenue Protected**: Potential loss prevented ($21,600)
- **Offline Devices**: Devices needing attention

### Section B: Geospatial Fleet Map

Interactive map with 500 devices:
- 🔴 **Red**: Critical devices (>80% failure probability)
- 🟠 **Orange**: Medium risk (50-80%)
- 🟢 **Green**: Healthy devices (<50%)

**Hover** over any device for details.

### Section C: AI Operations Agent

Three types of natural language queries:

#### 1. Structured Queries (Cortex Analyst)
```
"Show me the list of critical devices in New York"
```
→ Uses semantic model to generate SQL → Returns device list

#### 2. Unstructured Queries (Cortex Search)
```
"What is the standard fix for Memory Leak errors?"
```
→ Searches repair documentation → Returns manual excerpt

#### 3. Composite Queries (Both)
```
"Find all overheating devices and summarize the recommended repair steps"
```
→ Finds devices + repair guidance → Complete answer

## 💰 Business Value

### ROI Calculation

**Without Predictive Maintenance**:
- 18 critical displays fail unexpectedly
- Average downtime: 8.5 hours
- Average repair cost: $6,800
- Lost advertising revenue: 18 × $50/hr × 8.5 hrs = $7,650
- **Total cost**: $130,050

**With Predictive Maintenance**:
- Proactive service during scheduled windows
- Average downtime: 1.8 hours  
- Average repair cost: $2,500
- Lost advertising revenue: 18 × $50/hr × 1.8 hrs = $1,620
- **Total cost**: $46,620

**NET SAVINGS**: **$83,430 per incident cycle** (64% reduction)

### Key Metrics
- 79% reduction in downtime
- 63% lower repair costs
- $21,600 revenue protected in next 24 hours
- 89% ML prediction accuracy

## 📁 Project Structure

```
ai_agent_predictive_maintenance/
├── dashboard_app.py          # Main Streamlit application (upload to stage)
├── semantic_model.yaml       # Cortex Analyst configuration (upload to stage)
├── setup_backend.sql         # One-time Snowflake setup (run in worksheet)
├── README.md                 # This file
├── PROJECT_SUMMARY.md        # Executive summary & technical deep dive
├── DATA_SCHEMA.md            # Database schema reference
├── ARCHITECTURE.md           # Visual architecture diagrams
├── FILE_GUIDE.md             # Complete file inventory
└── validate_setup.py         # Optional: validation script
```

## 🔧 Customization

### Adding Custom Metrics

1. Update `semantic_model.yaml`:
```yaml
metrics:
  - name: my_custom_metric
    description: Description here
    type: sum
    definition:
      sql: SUM(my_column)
    from_table: FLEET_HEALTH_SCORED
```

2. Refresh the Streamlit app (it will reload automatically)

### Adding New Failure Types

1. Update `setup_backend.sql` to include new categories
2. Add repair documentation to `RUNBOOK_DOCS`
3. Update semantic model synonyms

### Changing Risk Thresholds

Modify in `semantic_model.yaml`:
```yaml
filters:
  - name: critical_only
    definition:
      sql: failure_probability > 0.90  # Changed from 0.85
```

## 🎓 Understanding the Data

### FLEET_HEALTH_SCORED (500 displays)

Real-time health metrics updated hourly by ML pipeline:

| Column | Description | Example |
|--------|-------------|---------|
| `device_id` | Unique identifier | PP-00001 |
| `region` | US State | New York, California |
| `hospital_name` | Facility name | Mount Sinai Hospital |
| `failure_probability` | ML prediction (0-1) | 0.89 (89% chance of failure) |
| `predicted_failure_type` | Most likely issue | Overheating, Memory Leak |
| `cpu_load`, `temperature`, etc. | Sensor readings | 87.9%, 76.2°C |

### MAINTENANCE_LOGS (200+ records)

Historical maintenance for ROI analysis:
- Preventive maintenance: $2,500 avg, 1.8 hrs downtime
- Reactive maintenance: $6,800 avg, 8.5 hrs downtime

### RUNBOOK_DOCS (6 repair manuals)

Comprehensive troubleshooting guides (3,000+ words each):
1. Overheating Component Diagnostic
2. Memory Leak Resolution
3. CPU Exhaustion Management
4. Power Supply Failure
5. Component Degradation
6. System Instability Recovery

## 🔍 Sample Queries

Try these in the AI Operations Agent:

**Structured (Data)**:
- "How many critical devices are in California?"
- "What is the total revenue at risk by region?"
- "Show devices with temperature above 75°C"

**Unstructured (Documentation)**:
- "How do I fix an overheating device?"
- "What tools are needed for power supply replacement?"
- "Show me the safety notes for CPU repair"

**Composite (Both)**:
- "Find all memory leak devices and show repair procedures"
- "Which overheating devices need immediate service?"

## 🚨 Troubleshooting

### Issue: "Session not found" error

**Solution**: Ensure you're accessing the app through Snowflake (not localhost). Streamlit in Snowflake manages sessions automatically.

### Issue: Cortex Search Service not found

**Solution**: 
```sql
-- Verify it exists
SHOW CORTEX SEARCH SERVICES IN SCHEMA PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS;

-- If missing, re-run the search service creation section from setup_backend.sql
```

### Issue: Empty map or no devices

**Solution**:
```sql
-- Check data exists
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.FLEET_HEALTH_SCORED;

-- Should return 500. If 0, re-run setup_backend.sql
```

### Issue: "Permission denied" errors

**Solution**:
```sql
-- Grant necessary permissions to your role
GRANT USAGE ON DATABASE PATIENTPOINT_OPS TO ROLE YOUR_ROLE;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS TO ROLE YOUR_ROLE;
GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS TO ROLE YOUR_ROLE;
GRANT USAGE ON CORTEX SEARCH SERVICE PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.RUNBOOK_SEARCH_SERVICE TO ROLE YOUR_ROLE;
```

## 📈 Performance Optimization

### Warehouse Sizing

- **Development/Testing**: X-Small ($2/hour when running)
- **Production (<50 users)**: Small ($4/hour)
- **Production (50+ users)**: Medium ($8/hour)

Enable auto-suspend:
```sql
ALTER WAREHOUSE COMPUTE_WH SET 
  AUTO_SUSPEND = 300  -- 5 minutes
  AUTO_RESUME = TRUE;
```

### Query Optimization

The app uses:
- **Materialized views** for KPIs (pre-aggregated)
- **Clustering keys** on `region` and `failure_probability`
- **Client-side caching** (5-minute TTL)

## 🔐 Security

### Built-in Benefits of Streamlit in Snowflake

✅ **Authentication**: Automatic via Snowflake login  
✅ **Authorization**: Governed by Snowflake RBAC  
✅ **Data Security**: Never leaves Snowflake account  
✅ **Network Security**: Internal to Snowflake VPC  
✅ **Audit Logging**: Tracked in QUERY_HISTORY  

### Recommended: Create Read-Only Role

```sql
-- Minimal permissions for dashboard users
CREATE ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;

GRANT USAGE ON DATABASE PATIENTPOINT_OPS TO ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS TO ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;
GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS TO ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;
GRANT SELECT ON ALL VIEWS IN SCHEMA PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS TO ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;
GRANT USAGE ON WAREHOUSE COMPUTE_WH TO ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;
GRANT USAGE ON CORTEX SEARCH SERVICE PATIENTPOINT_OPS.DEVICE_ANALYTICS.RUNBOOK_SEARCH_SERVICE TO ROLE DASHBOARD_READER;

-- Grant to users
GRANT ROLE DASHBOARD_READER TO USER <username>;
```

## 📚 Additional Resources

- **[PROJECT_SUMMARY.md](PROJECT_SUMMARY.md)**: Executive overview, ROI, technical deep dive
- **[DATA_SCHEMA.md](DATA_SCHEMA.md)**: Complete database schema and sample queries
- **[ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md)**: Visual architecture diagrams
- **[FILE_GUIDE.md](FILE_GUIDE.md)**: Complete file inventory and learning paths

### Snowflake Documentation
- [Streamlit in Snowflake Documentation](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/streamlit/about-streamlit)
- [Cortex AI Overview](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/ml-powered-functions)
- [Cortex Analyst Guide](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/ml-powered-analysis)
- [Cortex Search API](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/snowflake-cortex/cortex-search)

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a reference implementation for Snowflake Cortex AI capabilities. Enhancements welcome:

1. Real ML pipeline integration (replace simulated scores)
2. Historical trending (24-hour/7-day charts)
3. Alerting system integration
4. Work order management
5. Multi-tenancy support

## 📝 License

This project is provided as a reference implementation for educational and demonstration purposes.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

Built to demonstrate Snowflake Cortex AI capabilities for predictive maintenance in healthcare IoT.

**Key Technologies**:
- **Snowflake Cortex Analyst**: Natural language to SQL
- **Snowflake Cortex Search**: Semantic document search
- **Streamlit in Snowflake**: Native app deployment
- **Snowpark Python**: Data processing

---

## 🚀 Get Started Now

1. **Clone this repository**
2. **Run `setup_backend.sql` in Snowflake**
3. **Upload `dashboard_app.py` and `semantic_model.yaml` to a stage**
4. **Create Streamlit app** (see Step 2 above)
5. **Launch and explore!**

**Questions?** Open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/sfc-gh-akelkar/ai_agent_predictive_maintenance/issues)

---

**Built with ❤️ using Snowflake Cortex AI**

**Author**: Principal Snowflake Architect specializing in Data Visualization and GenAI  
**Last Updated**: December 12, 2025  
**Status**: ✅ Production Ready
